type: Game
time: 2024
image: 2222/thumb.png

---

! 2222

One of my old projects, [FOUR FOUR](/four-four), contains a list of every four-letter English word. I just grabbed this word list from some random website back in 2012, and it was full of obscure words that didn't combo well and other garbage. So, the other day, I decided to read through the list and trim it down to just the good stuff. I was partway through the process when I realized… it'd be pretty dang silly if I streamed myself reading and pruning this massive list of words. So…

<iframe class="youtube" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/D_NTiFXA9bg?rel=0&amp;showinfo=0" allowfullscreen frameborder="0"></iframe>

So that went well. It went weird, which is well.

The final list ended up with almost exactly 2222 words. I added a few that were weirdly missing (like "[Hest](/hest)"), and removed some names (because names aren't silly).

So then I wondered… how quickly could you read this list of words?

What if I wrote a program that'd pop the words up as fast as I could say them?

How long would it take to read all of them?

Well, I could read a word every half second or so. 2222 ÷ 120 words per minute… comes out to… tantalizingly close to 22 minutes and 22 seconds.

And the code needed to read the list of words and show them one-at-a-time is suuuuper simple.

And the rest just flowed naturally from there.

<iframe class="youtube" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/ZstE5y6nKSU?rel=0&amp;showinfo=0" allowfullscreen frameborder="0"></iframe>

The code is soooo simple!

I could imagine writing this program whenever I learn a new language. Like, first you do Hello World, then you do 2222. It'd be like TodoMVC but as an absurdist game.

So… I made that too.

**[github.com/ivanreese/2222](https://github.com/ivanreese/2222)**

> # 2222
> "Two Twenty-Two Two" is a game 🎲
>
> for people 🫣 who like to be silly
>
> and know a tiny 🤏 bit of programming.

The idea is that anyone who wants to play the game should first implement it themselves in a programming language of their choosing, then play the game, then share their code or a recording of them playing.

So far, a few days after creating the game, people have contributed implementations in AppleScript, awk, bash, gleam, haskell, html, perl, python, rust, scratch, and xargs!

Nobody has done a stream or recording of themselves actually _playing_ the game yet, though. Hmm.
